This is one of multiple videos discussing SPF designated Rada and back of the designated Rada elections.
Have a look at this segment connected to this layer to switch which Rada will become the designated
Rada.
Will it be Rada one with this IP address 10 1 1 1 priority 100 or will it be right at 2 using the default
priority an IP address 10 1 1 2.
Or will it be rather 3 with a party of 20 IP addresses 10 1 1 3 or will it be write a 4 with a party
of 0 IP address 10 1 1 4 which Rada will become the designated Rada on this segment.
What do you think.
So let's see if you can answer some additional questions.
What is the default priority in 0 SPF.
What happens when a Rada has a property of zero.
Is it highest or lowest priority.
That makes it hard to win an election.
Is property even used.
Is it highest or lowest IP address.
In this topology of shut down all the interfaces on the switch and what I'll do now is enable them so
that all right interfaces come up at the same time and an election is held.
So here's Rada for sure.
IP SPF interface gigabit Foster Ethan 00 we can see that this Rada has a party of 0.
Its state is your other neighbor relationships are being established so show IP of SPF neighbor we have
a serial interface which we can ignore for this discussion.
That's this interface here.
We are concentrating on the Ethernet segment so we can see the properties of the neighbors right if
one has a property of 100.
It's become the designated router it to has a party of one.
It's become a deal or other route a 3 has a party of 20.
It's become the BTR and once again on the local Rada Foster Ethan at 0 0.
It's become a D or other so the first criteria for determining who the designated Rada is on a segment
is priority highest priority wins default.
Property is one when the property is set to zero.
The Rada will not become a designated Rada or a backup designated Rada hope you enjoyed this video.
If he did please like it and please subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.